Added article "Reasons to use Microsoft Edge DevTools" (#1763)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/reasons-edge-devtools.md

---
title: Reasons to use Microsoft Edge DevTools
description: Reasons to use Microsoft Edge DevTools, including ease of use, customization, and unique tools.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: devtools
ms.date: 05/20/2022
---
# Reasons to use Microsoft Edge DevTools

The Microsoft Edge DevTools team has added a lot of features based on feedback we received from the community to enhance the experience of Developers.  Here is a list of features that are unique to Microsoft Edge, available on Windows, Mac and Linux.

**Contents:**

* [Ease of use](#ease-of-use)
   * [Open and close tools easily](#open-and-close-tools-easily)
   * [Move tools around in the UI](#move-tools-around-in-the-ui)
   * [Focus Mode with Activity Bar and Quick View tool menu](#focus-mode-with-activity-bar-and-quick-view-tool-menu)

>    * [Tooltips Help Documentation mode](#tooltips-help-documentation-mode)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * [DevTools Tooltips mode](#devtools-tooltips-mode)
```

![Clicking the + button to add a tool.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/more-tools-button-adds-tool-on-toolbar.png)

Removing a tool by clicking the **x** button on the tab of the tool:

![Removing a tool by activating the x button on the tab of the tool](reasons-edge-devtools-images/click-tab-x-button-to-remove-tool.png)

See [The More Tools menus](about-tools.md#the-more-tools-menus) in _About the list of tools_.

### Move tools around in the UI
 
By right-clicking any tab in the main toolbar or Drawer toolbar, you can move a tool from the top to the bottom panel, and vice versa.

Moving a tool to the bottom drawer using the right-click menu:

![Moving a tool to the bottom drawer using the right-click menu.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/right-click-tool-tab-move-drawer-toolbar.png)

The tool now appears on the bottom drawer:

![The tool now appears on the bottom drawer.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/tool-tab-moved-bottom-toolbar.png)

See [Panel tools vs. Drawer tools](about-tools.md#panel-tools-vs-drawer-tools) in _About the list of tools_.

> ### Focus Mode with Activity Bar and Quick View tool menu

Author: @hxlnt - pls review

Focus Mode is a new user interface for DevTools.  Focus Mode simplifies and streamlines the DevTools UI.

Focus Mode replaces the DevTools toolbar and its tabs by an Activity Bar, which is a compact toolbar with distinctive icons.  You can keep the Activity Bar on the left, or move it to the top.  The Activity Bar makes it possible to pin, rearrange, and open your favorite tools, for quick access.  The Activity Bar also provides access to user settings, help, and other features.

> Focus Mode also provides a **Quick View** list, to open a second tool alongside the tool that's already selected in the Activity Bar.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Focus Mode also provides a **Quick View** list to open a second tool alongside the tool that's already selected in the Activity Bar.

```

![Activity Bar and Quick View tool menu.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/activity-bar-quick-view.png)

See [Simplify DevTools using Focus Mode](experimental-features/focus-mode.md).

### Tooltips Help Documentation mode

To learn about each tool, enable Tooltips mode, which is a Help mode with links to documentation.  In Focus Mode, you can turn on the Tooltips Mode, which allows you to learn more about the different tools by selecting the various tool tabs in DevTools.

Tool explanations shown when Tooltips mode is enabled:

![Tool explanations shown when Tooltips mode is enabled.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/tool-explanations-in-tooltips-mode.png)

See [Display DevTools Tooltips](overview.md#display-devtools-tooltips) in _Overview of DevTools_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Customization

### Change the UI language

> You can choose a different User Interface language for Microsoft Edge DevTools.  Our usage data shows that users of DevTools come from all over the world, so it made sense to offer them in different languages.
> 
> Microsoft Edge Developer Tools displayed in German:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose a different user interface language for Microsoft Edge DevTools.

Microsoft Edge DevTools displayed in German:
```

![Microsoft Edge Developer Tools displayed in German.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/microsoft-edge-devtools-with-german-ui.png)

Microsoft Edge Developer Tools displayed in Japanese:

![Microsoft Edge Developer Tools displayed in Japanese.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/microsoft-edge-devtools-with-japanese-ui.png)

See [Change DevTools language settings](customize/localization.md).

### Change the color theme

> You can choose a different color theme.  Themes can make your user experience much better, and you can change the look of DevTools to your needs.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose a different color theme to change the look of DevTools.  Several popular VS Code themes are available if you prefer to use the same theme and syntax highlighting across DevTools and VS Code.

```

Switching to a different theme in DevTools Settings:

![Switching to a different theme in DevTools Settings.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/switch-theme-devtools-settings.png)

Microsoft Edge DevTools displayed in the Monokai theme:

![Microsoft Edge DevTools displayed in the Monokai theme.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/devtools-monokai-theme.png)

See [Apply a color theme to DevTools](customize/theme.md).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Unique tools

These web development tools are only available in Microsoft Edge DevTools.

### Detached Elements tool

> The **Detached Elements** tool was built on feedback from a Microsoft team that needed to find out about memory leaks in one of our products.  You can find out what elements are using up memory, even though they aren't part of the Document Object Model (DOM) tree any longer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Detached Elements** tool was built on feedback from a Microsoft team that needed to find out about memory leaks in one of our products.  You can find out which elements are using up memory, even though they are no longer part of the Document Object Model (DOM) tree.
```

The tool now appears on the bottom drawer:

![The tool now appears on the bottom drawer.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/tool-tab-moved-bottom-toolbar.png)

See [Panel tools vs. Drawer tools](about-tools.md#panel-tools-vs-drawer-tools) in _About the list of tools_.

### Focus Mode with Activity Bar and Quick View tool menu

**Focus Mode** makes the DevTools UI even easier to use.  The Microsoft Edge DevTools team learned through user interviews and feedback sessions that the number of tools displayed at a given time can be overwhelming.  This is why we introduced Focus Mode, which groups a large set of features for related tasks into various tool panels, and then allows you to show only the tools that you need for your current activity or work mode.

Focus mode showing only tools related to Elements debugging:

![Focus mode showing only tools related to Elements debugging.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/focus-mode-with-only-elements-debugging-tools.png)

Focus mode showing only tools related to Source editing:

![Focus mode showing only tools related to Source editing.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/focus-mode-with-only-source-editing-tools.png)

> See [Simplify DevTools using Focus Mode](experimental-features/focus-mode.md).

Reviewer 3: I think we need to rephrase this. This was the first design of Focus Mode (where multiple tools would be grouped together under one icon), but it no longer works this way.
I would advise using just 1 image, and changing the description of the feature to something similar to what we have at the top of https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/experimental-features/focus-mode

Rachel should review this part too.

See [Find and fix problems using the Issues tool](issues/index.md).

### Integration of Microsoft Edge DevTools with Visual Studio Code

When you're debugging a problem with your webpage, it's cumbersome to change from a code editor, to the browser, then using DevTools in the browser to analyze the problem, and then going back to try a possible fix of the problem in your source code.  This is why we created a Visual Studio Code extension that embeds Microsoft Edge DevTools into your code editor workflow. 

For example, without integrated tools, you temporarily fix CSS style rules in your transient, resulting webpage files that are sent from your development server to your browser, and then you have to remember the changes, and then re-apply those changes to your actual source code in your source files, over in your code editor.

Now, by using the Microsoft Edge DevTools extension for Visual Studio Code, you can simply use Microsoft Edge DevTools to change your source code directly within an instance of DevTools that's running in the IDE environment of Visual Studio Code.<!-- condense end -->

Microsoft Edge DevTools integrated into Visual Studio Code:

> ![Microsoft Edge DevTools integrated into Visual Studio Code.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/devtools-integrated-into-visual-studio-code.png)

Reviewer 3: It might be better for this screenshot to also show code next to devtools. Would you be able to redo the screenshot with the file `base.css` opened in VSCode. The ideal layout we want to show here is 3 columns:

1. base.css code editor
2. devtools elements panel
3. devtools screencast browser

If it causes the columns to become too narrow, then I'd suggest collapsing the **Explorer** sidebar to save some space.

See [Microsoft Edge DevTools extension for Visual Studio Code](../visual-studio-code/microsoft-edge-devtools-extension.md).

### Network Console

Inspecting the network traffic of your web product is already insightful, but often you need to make some changes to the requests to see why they fail.  Using the **Network Console**, you can change and replay any of the requests, and you can make detailed API calls.

**Network Console** showing options for changing a network call:

> ![Network Console showing options for changing a network call.](reasons-edge-devtools-images/network-console-options-changing-network-call.png)

Reviewer 3: Why is there a red box around the **Network** tool in this screenshot? The text doesn't mention this tool, so I'm not sure why attention is called out.
